a new documentary film came out called
cowspiracy and the film presents many
plain facts about ecology about veganism
about the environmental devastation
that's caused by meat production but the
dramatic tension in the film is not
created by any of these merely
scientific factors really the sparks of
life and human interest in the film are
created by interviews with executive
level directors of charities NGOs
nongovernmental organization charitable
organizations that are supposed to be
representing the same agenda as the
filmmaker himself but who come into a
kind of tense conflict with the
filmmaker despite the fact that he is
not asking them hostile questions at all
this is nothing like an interview
between a vegan activist and the
executive director of a fast food
restaurant this is nothing like the kind
of high tension interview you'd expect
where one party is trying to trap the
other or trick the other into saying
something that will condemn them when
you're watching this film the dramatic
tension comes to the fact that this guy
asks the simplest and most direct
questions imaginable most honest
questions imaginable and these executive
level highly experienced people in
charities squirm in their seats unable
to give a straight reply as one example
very simple question he asked several
different people who are supposed to
have specialized expertise in the rain
forest and whose career is supposed to
be an advocacy and intervention in
rainforest issues and he simply asked
what's the number one cause of
deforestation in the rainforest and you
know you would think this was a the
people asking this question seem like
idiots they're unprepared for it
factually and they're completely
unprepared to think on their feet and
just have a creative and open mind
sponsz to the fact that this film is
drawing attention to the overwhelming
importance of animal agriculture of meat
production in causing a long list of the
words world's environmental and
ecological problems you have to ask
yourself who are these people
and why is there this pattern that I've
encountered in my own life and my own
work many many times why is there this
strange pattern of people with no
competence with zero competence being in
positions of executive authorities in
the charity sector well it's a
remarkable thing the way the charity
sector works one of the most striking
examples if you see the film or when you
see the film there's a woman on screen
called Anna not off and not off seems
like a [ __ ] she's not being factually
wrong as one thing being factually wrong
happens to all kinds of people for all
kinds of sympathetic reasons but an not
off isn't just wrong she's an idiot and
she's being an idiot about a subject
that's supposed to be central to her own
professional work if you look down her
resume she's supposed to have been
expert on this for decades
what diploma does she actually have her
only diploma is in fact in urban
planning it's not salient it's not a
relevant qualification Lindsey Allen
another executive level person in an
environmental charity who's interviewed
it seems like a complete [ __ ] on camera
and I hope she takes it seriously
because it's you know it's not just it's
not like george w bush saying the wrong
word at the wrong time these are really
serious lapses on camera for all the
people concerned her only diploma is a
bachelor's degree in anthropology ba and
amp okay how does the charity sector
work why are these people in positions
of such tremendous importance given that
they both don't have qualifications and
as the documentary shows that if you ask
them the
simplest question imaginable about this
area of expertise they prove right away
that they're complete morons with no
pressure no trickery involved well what
you have to remember is none of these
people write an exam there's no
equivalent to getting a driver's license
to be confident into this job the only
form of competence that matters is
fundraising the only form of scrutiny
applied in the charity sector is whether
or not you're willing to say what it
takes to get to the next fundraiser to
make the fundraising happen to get the
money into the institution I can't even
really call it corruption the economics
of the nonprofit sector are in some ways
more persuasive more distorting than
they are in the for-profit sector and
you end up with ecological organizations
where the people in charge the last
thing on their mind is ecology I know
some really sad and strange examples of
that from Laos and Cambodia but if I
digress into it this is gonna be a half
hour video and only five people are
gonna be able to follow what I'm talking
about but in my own work I'm own
experience I have a lot of have a lot of
experience with exactly the type of
people who are interviewed in this
documentary and who look like such
idiots um however not in all cases are
they lacking credentials one of the guys
who seems like a an idiot on camera
seems like a complete idiot very
good-looking guy is Chad Nelson he looks
like a movie star and he sounds like a
surfer and by his own description he has
a PhD in surf phenomics the economics of
the surfing industry but if you look at
his CV he has several university degrees
that are very impressive
he seems highly qualified on paper he
also seems like a complete idiot in this
documentary and not for trivial reasons
not for reasons that should be dismissed
or ignored he can't deal with the simple
central ecological questions that are
put to him and another example that to
me is telling a guy called
Chester comes on screen and he seems to
me a complete idiot he answers the
questions in all the wrong way the wrong
attitude the wrong facts the wrong
outlook on life and he's an example of a
guy who earned his ph.d while he was
already employed by the NGO now again in
my own direct experience and as a
general political pattern that's a
really insidious one because you can get
a situation where people are hired by an
organization and then they're in effect
paid to get the credentials that will
justify the job they already have now I
do not know the details of this guy is a
specific example but I have seen that
again and again and that's one of the
reasons why when you look at the resumes
of these people if you look up who are
they who are the people in this film and
how is it they have decades of
experience working the same steady job
over this period of time that can that
can be part of the pattern but again the
only form of scrutiny that matters is
saying we'll bring in donations now one
of the people who comes out a little bit
all right let's be blunt someone who
doesn't look like an idiot on camera on
this is a woman named Lyle s Salazar
Lopez and that's an interesting
interview because for the first several
minutes it's very awkward it's very
halting and you think she's gonna be a
complete idiot like everyone else
they've interviewed in this documentary
you think she's gonna embarrass herself
like these other representatives of
charities and NGOs but they give her
enough time on camera that at one point
she stops she thinks about what the
filmmaker has said to her and she
basically says look I'm sorry I'm wrong
you're raising a really important point
she admits that she wasn't prepared
factually to deal with this but that
actually the issues the filmmaker is
raising are much more important than the
issues that her organization had
prepared her to bring to this meeting
they're more important than the issues
that are on her own organization's
website and that her organizations way
of framing the issues in order to
maximize fundraising potential are
antithetical to the facts and to sincere
concern theological outcomes so
cowspiracy look it's a very interesting
film if you
already know the type of environmental
facts that it presents if you're vegan
and you already do know those facts then
most of what's interesting about it is a
glimpse into the world of government
bureaucrats charity executives and a
small number of research scientists they
do have some people who do original
research who appear in the film those
those guys don't look like idiots they
seem alright you get to see the politics
and the psychology of why money keeps
being poured on these problems but not
only does nothing change there's nothing
get addressed or get sold but even in
terms of the optics and propaganda
people are always directed away from
making the one decision that would have
the most direct immediate impact
possible and that decision is not to
change your shower head to being a
low-flow showerhead the decision is to
never eat meat and again in your life